Dog-Walker Tips (Reference: https://www.puppyleaks.com/dog-walking-tips)
Use a Front Clip Harness if your dog pulls on a leash.

Let Your Dog Sniff Around for Mental Stimulation:
You can make walks more meaningful & enriching to your dog just by giving them a few extra minutes to sniff around.
Programmes of sensory enrichment that target the dominant sense for the species under scrutiny, using harmless, non-stressful stimuli, are likely to result in the greatest benefits for animal welfare. – Applied Animal Behavior Science.

Always Pick Up Your Dog's Poop:
Dog poop causes major health concerns and picking it up is part of being a responsible pet owner.

Bring Plenty of Water For Your Dog:
If you’re going to be walking for more than a half hour or out in the hot weather bring plenty of water along for your dog. 
Dogs that drink during exercise stay cooler and are able to burn glucose more effectively. – Pet Education.

Make Sure Your Dog is Wearing Proper Identification:
Every time you leave the house with your dog ensure that they’re wearing ID tags. 
Since collars can break or be wriggled out of talk to your Vet about getting a microchip.
Make sure your dog is wearing proper identification before heading out on your walk.

Watch Out For Hot Pavement in the Summer:
If your dog is pretty tolerant you can even get them some booties to help protect their paws. 
You can avoid hot pavement by walking in the woods, on dirt roads, or walking your dog during the evening.

Keep Your Dogs Focus By Bringing Along High Value Treats:
No matter where you walk there’s going to be distractions.
In those “oh crap” situations keep your dogs attention by having some high value treats on hand.
Bring some high value treats on walks to grab your dogs attention when needed.

Ask Before Approaching Other Dogs:
Just because your dog is friendly doesn’t mean every dog to dog meeting will be pleasant. 
Avoid any unnecessary risk by asking before letting your dog approach another dog.
Not all dogs are dog-friendly, and there’s plenty of dogs that don’t do well with on leash greetings.

Wear Reflective Gear if You Walk During the Evening:
For the safety of you and your dog get wear something reflective if you walk at night.
If you walk during the evening wear reflective gear for more visibility.
If the majority of your walks are during the evening you can get a reflective collar/leash combo for your dog as well.

Dog-Walker Tips (Reference: https://www.cesarsway.com/6-tips-for-mastering-the-dog-walk/)

Walk in front of your dog:
Walking in front of your dog allows you to be seen as the pack leader. Conversely, if your dog controls you on the walk, he’s the pack leader. You should be the first one out the door and the first one in. Your dog should be beside or behind you during the walk.

Use a short dog leash:
Always keep your dog’s safety in mind when giving corrections.

Give yourself enough time for the dog walk:
Dogs, like humans, are diurnal, so taking walks in the morning is ideal. 
Setting aside thirty minutes to a full hour. The specific needs of each dog differ.

How to reward your dog during the walk:
After your dog has maintained the proper state of mind, reward him by allowing him to relieve himself and sniff around. 
Then you need to decide when reward time is over. It should always be less than the time spent focused on the walk. 

Keep leading, even after the walk:
When you get home, don’t stop leading. 

Reward your dog after the walk:
By providing a meal after the walk, you have allowed your dog to “work” for food and water.

Dog-Walker Tips (Reference: https://www.akc.org/expert-advice/training/ways-you-might-be-ruining-your-dogs-walk)

Don't Rush Bathroom Breaks:
Where dogs choose to go to the bathroom is an important decision. 
It’s not just about relieving themselves, it’s about communicating with the world-at-large. 

Let Your Dog Sniff and Explore:
Dogs have up to 300 million scent receptors in their nose, depending on the breed.
Consider teaching cues like “Watch me” or “Leave it” to take their minds off the smell and put their attention back on you. 

Pulling on the Leash:
One of the most common responses we have to a dog pulling on the leash is to pull back. 
However, this rarely gets the desired effect of a loose leash. Instead, we end up in a leash tug-of-war, and with a large and strong dog, chances are the human will lose.
Teach your dog to walk with a loose leash (having the leash hang down in a “J” shape between you) by stopping and changing direction whenever he gets ahead of you. 

Dog-Walker Tips (Reference: https://www.petsecure.com.au/pet-training-tips/8-easy-tips-walking-energetic-dog/)
Check your body language:
Many owners don’t realise that their mood and body language can affect their dog during a walk. You need a stance and attitude that says “I’m in charge”, so your dog knows exactly who is the pack leader. 
Keep your head up, your shoulders back, and keep a positive energy as you walk your dog. Don’t let them take control.

Walk at a brisk pace:
Walking at a fairly brisk pace will help your dog to keep their attention on the walk itself, and not on every smell they come into contact with.

Don’t reward bad behaviour:
Every time you allow your dog to pull on their lead in order to go and sniff at something or get somewhere, you’re rewarding that pattern of behaviour. 

Control the length and tension of the leash:
This one simple trick could be the solution to your problems; rather than use a flexi-leash or a long leash, keep your dog leash short.

Walk your dog with other dogs:
If you find that your dog can’t walk past another dog without barking or lunging at them, try walking your dog with another dog that you trust. This will allow you to practice remaining calm when they do become excited.

Take your dog for regular walks:
Taking your pooch for a 30-minute walk twice a day will result in a much happier and calmer dog.

Don’t let it put you off!
While in the beginning each walk can feel more like a trial than a pleasure, things will only get better with practice. 
So get out there regularly, at least once or twice a day, and show your dog exactly who’s in charge – in a calm and confident way. Reward your dog for good behaviour and polite walking, but keep calm if the walk doesn’t go as planned. 